TELCODOCS-1683 QinQ support in SR-IOV Network Operator 1 (#74534)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-configuring-qinq-sriov-proc.adoc

link/ether b4:96:91:a5:22:10 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
vf 0 link/ether a2:81:ba:d0:6f:f3 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 1 link/ether 8a:bb:0a:36:f2:ed brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, vlan 171, vlan protocol 802.1ad, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 2 link/ether ca:0e:e1:5b:0c:d2 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 3 link/ether ee:6c:e2:f5:2c:70 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 4 link/ether 0a:d6:b7:66:5e:e8 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 5 link/ether da:d5:e7:14:4f:aa brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 6 link/ether d6:8e:85:75:12:5c brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 7 link/ether d6:eb:ce:9c:ea:78 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 8 link/ether 5e:c5:cc:05:93:3c brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust on
vf 9 link/ether a6:5a:7c:1c:2a:16 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off   
----
+

> The `vlan protocol 802.1ad` id in the output indicates that the interface supports VLAN tagging with protocol 802.1ad (QinQ). The VLAN id is 171.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `vlan protocol 802.1ad` ID in the output indicates that the interface supports VLAN tagging with protocol 802.1ad (QinQ). The VLAN ID is 171.
```

----
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: nad-cvlan100
  namespace: default
spec:
  config: '{
    "name": "vlan-100",
    "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
    "type": "vlan",
    "linkInContainer": true,
    "master": "net1", <1>
    "vlanId": 100,
    "ipam": {"type": "static"}
  }'
----
+
<1> Specifies the VF interface inside the pod. The default name is `net1` as the name is not set in the pod annotation. 

.. Apply the YAML file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f nad-cvlan100.yaml
----

.Verification

- Verify QinQ is active on the node by following this procedure: 

. Create a file named `test-qinq-pod.yaml`  by using the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-pod
  annotations:
    k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: sriovnetwork-1ad-810, nad-cvlan100
spec:
  containers:
    - name: test-container
      image: quay.io/ocp-edge-qe/cnf-gotests-client:v4.10
      imagePullPolicy: Always
      securityContext:
        privileged: true
----

. Create the test pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f test-qinq-pod.yaml
---- 

> . Obtain a list of cluster nodes by running the following command: 

Reviewer 2: no need to have this step (listing nodes)

.Procedure

. Create an `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object, and then save the YAML in the `<name>-sriov-node-network.yaml` file. Replace <name> with the name for this configuration.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetworkNodePolicy
metadata:
  name: sriovnetpolicy-810
  namespace: openshift-sriov-network-operator
spec:
  deviceType: netdevice
  nicSelector:
    pfNames:
      - ens5f0#0-9
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-cnf: ""
  numVfs: 10
  priority: 99
  resourceName: resource810
----

. Optional: Label the SR-IOV capable cluster nodes with `SriovNetworkNodePolicy.Spec.NodeSelector` if they are not already labeled. For more information about labeling nodes, see "Understanding how to update labels on nodes".

. Create the `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <name>-sriov-node-network.yaml
----
+
After applying the configuration update, all the pods in `sriov-network-operator` namespace move to the `Running` status.

. Create a `SriovNetwork` object, setting the outer VLAN referred to as the S-tag, or `Service Tag`, as it belongs to the infrastructure.

> 

Reviewer 3: Maybe mention that this VLAN needs to be configured on the switch trunk interface.

.. To create the object, enter the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f nad-sriovnetwork-1ad-810.yaml
----

. Create a Network Attachment Definition with an inner VLAN. The inner VLAN is often referred to as the C-tag, or `Customer Tag`, as it belongs to the Network Function.

.. Using the following YAML example, create a file named `nad-cvlan100.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: nad-cvlan100
  namespace: default
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "vlan-100",
      "plugins": [
        {
          "type": "vlan",
          "master": "net1", <1>
          "vlanId": 100,
          "linkInContainer": true, 
          "ipam": {"type": "static"}
        }
      ]
    }
----
+
<1> Specifies the virtual function (VF) interface inside the pod. The default name is `net1` since the name is not set in the pod annotation. 

.. Apply the YAML file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f nad-cvlan100.yaml
----

.Verification

> Verify QinQad is active on the node by following this procedure: 

Reviewer 2: QinQad?

. Create an example test pod spec such as the following, and then save the YAML in the `test-qinq-pod.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-pod
  annotations:
    k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: sriovnetwork-1ad-810, nad-cvlan100
spec:
  containers:
    - name: test-container

>       image: quay.io/openshifttest/hello-openshift:openshift

Reviewer 2: you need to use a image that support sriov? Please use an example of other pages.

      imagePullPolicy: Always
      securityContext:
        privileged: true
----

. Create the test pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f test-qinq-pod.yaml
---- 

. Obtain a list of cluster nodes: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes
----

. Enter into a debug session on the target node, the node with the NIC attached. This step instantiates a debug pod called `<node_name>-debug`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/my-cluster-node
----

. Set `/host` as the root directory within the debug shell. The debug pod mounts the host’s root file system in /host within the pod. By changing the root directory to /host, you can run binaries contained in the host’s executable paths:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# chroot /host
----

. To display information about network interfaces, including their status and configuration, run the following command on the physical interface the virtual functions are created on:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ip -d link show ens5f0
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----

> 7: ens5f0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000

Reviewer 2: this output is not correct

Reviewer 3: ip link show ens5f0
6: ens5f0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc mq state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000
    link/ether b4:96:91:a5:22:10 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    vf 0     link/ether a2:81:ba:d0:6f:f3 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
    vf 1     link/ether 8a:bb:0a:36:f2:ed brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, vlan 171, vlan protocol 802.1ad, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
    vf 2     link/ether ca:0e:e1:5b:0c:d2 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
    vf 3     link/ether ee:6c:e2:f5:2c:70 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, vlan 171, vlan protocol 802.1ad, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
    vf 4     link/ether 0a:d6:b7:66:5e:e8 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
    vf 5     link/ether da:d5:e7:14:4f:aa brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
    vf 6     link/ether d6:8e:85:75:12:5c brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
    vf 7     link/ether d6:eb:ce:9c:ea:78 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
    vf 8     link/ether 5e:c5:cc:05:93:3c brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust on
    vf 9     link/ether a6:5a:7c:1c:2a:16 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off

metadata:
  name: sriovnetwork-1ad-810
  namespace: openshift-sriov-network-operator
spec:
  ipam: '{}'
  vlan: 171 <1>
  vlanProto: "802.1ad" <2>
  networkNamespace: default
  resourceName: resource810
----
+
<1> This sets the S-tag VLAN tag to 171. 
<2> Specifies the VLAN protocol to assign to the VF. Allowed values are `802.1ad` and `802.1q`. The default is `802.1q`. 

.. To create the object, enter the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f nad-sriovnetwork-1ad-810.yaml
----

. Create a Network Attachment Definition with an inner VLAN. The inner VLAN is often referred to as the C-tag, or `Customer Tag`, as it belongs to the Network Function.

.. Using the following YAML example, create a file named `nad-cvlan100.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: nad-cvlan100
  namespace: default
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "vlan-100",
      "plugins": [
        {
          "type": "vlan",
          "master": "net1", <1>
          "vlanId": 100,
          "linkInContainer": true, 
          "ipam": {"type": "static"}
        }
      ]
    }
----

> +

Reviewer 3: The nad I used for testing looks a bit different.

apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: nad-cvlan100
  namespace: cni-test
spec:
  config: '{
            "name": "vlan-100",
            "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
            "type": "vlan",
            "linkInContainer": true,
            "master": "net1",
            "vlanId": 100, 
            "ipam": {"type": "static"}
            }'

Reviewer 2: @kquinn1204, should we use this one instead?

Reviewer 3: I not sure there is a difference. I just dont like to use the config command in the nad.

----
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: nad-cvlan100
  namespace: default
spec:
  config: '{
    "name": "vlan-100",
    "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
    "type": "vlan",
    "linkInContainer": true,
    "master": "net1", <1>
    "vlanId": 100,
    "ipam": {"type": "static"}
  }'
----
+
<1> Specifies the VF interface inside the pod. The default name is `net1` as the name is not set in the pod annotation. 

.. Apply the YAML file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f nad-cvlan100.yaml
----

.Verification

- Verify QinQ is active on the node by following this procedure: 

. Create a file named `test-qinq-pod.yaml`  by using the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-pod
  annotations:
    k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: sriovnetwork-1ad-810, nad-cvlan100
spec:
  containers:
    - name: test-container
      image: quay.io/ocp-edge-qe/cnf-gotests-client:v4.10
      imagePullPolicy: Always
      securityContext:
        privileged: true
----

. Create the test pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f test-qinq-pod.yaml
---- 

> . Obtain a list of cluster nodes by running the following command: 

Reviewer 2: please use the same convention as in https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/support/gathering-cluster-data.html#support-collecting-network-trace_gathering-cluster-data

Also please consider to use something more direct like

oc debug node/cnfdr28.telco5g.eng.rdu2.redhat.com -- bash -c "ip link show eno12409"

Its more concise, you can say that on the node where the pod is present, run the following command and thatś it

.. Apply the YAML file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f nad-cvlan100.yaml
----

.Verification

Verify QinQ is active on the node by following this procedure: 

. Create an example test pod spec such as the following, and then save the YAML in the `test-qinq-pod.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-pod
  annotations:
    k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: sriovnetwork-1ad-810, nad-cvlan100
spec:
  containers:
    - name: test-container
      image: quay.io/ocp-edge-qe/cnf-gotests-client:v4.10
      imagePullPolicy: Always
      securityContext:
        privileged: true
----

. Create the test pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f test-qinq-pod.yaml
---- 

. Obtain a list of cluster nodes: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes
----

. Enter into a debug session on the target node, the node with the NIC attached. This step instantiates a debug pod called `<node_name>-debug`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/my-cluster-node
----

> . Set `/host` as the root directory within the debug shell. The debug pod mounts the host’s root file system in /host within the pod. By changing the root directory to /host, you can run binaries contained in the host’s executable paths:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Set `/host` as the root directory within the debug shell by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
# chroot /host
----

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
The debug pod mounts the root file system of the host in `/host` inside the pod. If you change the root directory to `/host`, you can run binaries that are contained in the host’s executable paths.
```

link/ether b4:96:91:a5:22:10 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
vf 0 link/ether a2:81:ba:d0:6f:f3 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 1 link/ether 8a:bb:0a:36:f2:ed brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, vlan 171, vlan protocol 802.1ad, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 2 link/ether ca:0e:e1:5b:0c:d2 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 3 link/ether ee:6c:e2:f5:2c:70 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 4 link/ether 0a:d6:b7:66:5e:e8 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 5 link/ether da:d5:e7:14:4f:aa brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 6 link/ether d6:8e:85:75:12:5c brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 7 link/ether d6:eb:ce:9c:ea:78 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off
vf 8 link/ether 5e:c5:cc:05:93:3c brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust on
vf 9 link/ether a6:5a:7c:1c:2a:16 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off   
----
+

> The `vlan protocol 802.1ad` id in the output indicates that the interface supports VLAN tagging with protocol 802.1ad (QinQ). The VLAN identifier (id) is 171.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `vlan protocol 802.1ad` id in the output indicates that the interface supports VLAN tagging with protocol 802.1ad (QinQ). The VLAN id is 171.
```

= Configuring QinQ support for SR-IOV enabled workloads

.Prerequisites

* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have installed the SR-IOV Network Operator.

.Procedure

. Create an `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object, and then save the YAML in the `<name>-sriov-node-network.yaml` file. Replace `<name>` with the name for this configuration.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetworkNodePolicy
metadata:
  name: sriovnetpolicy-810
  namespace: openshift-sriov-network-operator
spec:
  deviceType: netdevice
  nicSelector:
    pfNames:
      - ens5f0#0-9
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-cnf: ""
  numVfs: 10
  priority: 99
  resourceName: resource810
----

. Open a seperate terminal window and monitor the sync status of the SR-IOV network node state for the specified node in the `openshift-sriov-network-operator` namespace by running the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ watch -n 1 'oc get sriovnetworknodestates -n openshift-sriov-network-operator <node_name> -o jsonpath="{.status.syncStatus}"'
----

> . Create the `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object:

Reviewer 2: first this and then the watch I think

      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "vlan-100",
      "plugins": [
        {
          "type": "vlan",
          "master": "net1", <1>
          "vlanId": 100,
          "linkInContainer": true, 
          "ipam": {"type": "static"}
        }
      ]
    }
----
+
<1> Specifies the virtual function (VF) interface inside the pod. The default name is `net1` since the name is not set in the pod annotation. 

.. Apply the YAML file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f nad-cvlan100.yaml
----

.Verification

Verify QinQ is active on the node by following this procedure: 

. Create an example test pod spec such as the following, and then save the YAML in the `test-qinq-pod.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-pod
  annotations:
    k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: sriovnetwork-1ad-810, nad-cvlan100
spec:
  containers:
    - name: test-container
      image: quay.io/ocp-edge-qe/cnf-gotests-client:v4.10
      imagePullPolicy: Always
      securityContext:
        privileged: true
----

. Create the test pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f test-qinq-pod.yaml
---- 

> . Obtain a list of cluster nodes: 

Reviewer 2: I would link to the document where we have the instructions to debug a node instead of pasting these commands again

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes
----

. Enter into a debug session on the target node, the node with the NIC attached. This step instantiates a debug pod called `<node_name>-debug`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/my-cluster-node
----

. Set `/host` as the root directory within the debug shell. The debug pod mounts the host’s root file system in /host within the pod. By changing the root directory to /host, you can run binaries contained in the host’s executable paths:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# chroot /host
----

. To display information about network interfaces, including their status and configuration, run the following command on the physical interface the virtual functions are created on:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ip link show ens5f0
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
6: ens5f0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc mq state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000
link/ether b4:96:91:a5:22:10 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
vf 0 link/ether a2:81:ba:d0:6f:f3 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off

> vf 1 link/ether 8a:bb:0a:36:f2:ed brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff, vlan 171, vlan protocol 802.1ad, spoof checking on, link-state auto, trust off

Reviewer 2: 2 vfs with 171? the pod only requests one

sriov-network-operator.v4.15.0-202401261531   SR-IOV Network Operator   4.15.0-202401261531              Succeeded
----

. To verify that the SR-IOV pods are deployed, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n openshift-sriov-network-operator
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
network-resources-injector-drcmj          1/1     Running   0          9m37s
operator-webhook-5s5vd                    1/1     Running   0          9m37s
sriov-network-config-daemon-zv2lj         1/1     Running   0          9m37s
sriov-network-operator-6c5dbb89c8-lmd5s   1/1     Running   0          9m53s
----

. Check the machine config pool:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get mcp
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAME         CONFIG                                                 UPDATED   UPDATING   DEGRADED   MACHINECOUNT   READYMACHINECOUNT   UPDATEDMACHINECOUNT   DEGRADEDMACHINECOUNT   AGE
master       rendered-master-acd1358917e9f98cbdb599aea622d78b       True      False      False      3              3                   3                     0                      22h

> worker-cnf   rendered-worker-cnf-1d871ac76e1951d32b2fe92369879826   False     True       False      2              1                   1                     0                      22h

Reviewer 2: I would omit all the above. Instead, you can simply say, refer to the installation section. No need to repeat all that. I just put in the prerequisites, sriov network operator installed.

----

. Create an `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object, and then save the YAML in the `<name>-sriov-node-network.yaml` file. Replace <name> with the name for this configuration.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetworkNodePolicy
metadata:
  name: sriovnetpolicy-810
  namespace: openshift-sriov-network-operator
spec:
  deviceType: netdevice
  nicSelector:
    pfNames:
      - ens5f0#0-9
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-cnf: ""
  numVfs: 10
  priority: 99
  resourceName: resource810
----

. Optional: Label the SR-IOV capable cluster nodes with `SriovNetworkNodePolicy.Spec.NodeSelector` if they are not already labeled. For more information about labeling nodes, see "Understanding how to update labels on nodes".

. Create the `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <name>-sriov-node-network.yaml
----
+

> After applying the configuration update, all the pods in `sriov-network-operator` namespace move to the `Running` status.

Reviewer 2: let's not add verification for these steps. Let's keep the same format as in other pages of the sriov documentation.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetwork
metadata:
  name: sriovnetwork-1ad-810
  namespace: openshift-sriov-network-operator
spec:
  ipam: '{}'
  vlan: 171 <1>
  vlanProto: "802.1ad" <2>
  networkNamespace: default
  resourceName: resource810
----
+
<1> This sets the S-tag VLAN tag to 171. 
<2> Specifies the VLAN protocol to assign to the VF. Allowed values are `802.1ad` and `802.1q`. The default is `802.1q`. 

. To create the object, enter the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <name>.yaml
----

. Optional: To confirm that the `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` object that is associated with the `SriovNetwork` object that you created in the previous step exists, enter the following command. Replace `<namespace>` with the networkNamespace you specified in the `SriovNetwork` object.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get net-attach-def -n default
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                   AGE
sriovnetwork-1ad-810   29s
----

> 

Reviewer 2: same comment as above

. Create a Network Attachment Definition with an inner VLAN. The inner VLAN is often referred to as the C-tag, or `Customer Tag`, as it belongs to the Network Function.

.. Using the following YAML example, create a file named `nad-cvlan100.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: nad-cvlan100
  namespace: default
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "vlan-100",
      "plugins": [
        {
          "type": "vlan",

>           "master": "net1", 

Reviewer 2: you need to mentoin that the master corresponds to the VF interface inside the pod. Default name is net1 since name is not set in the pod annotion

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get net-attach-def -n default
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAME              AGE
sriov-intel       58m
nad-cvlan100      54m
----

.Verification

Verify QinQad is active on the node by following this procedure: 

. Obtain a list of cluster nodes: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes
----

. Enter into a debug session on the target node, the node with the NIC attached. This step instantiates a debug pod called <node_name>-debug:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/my-cluster-node
----

. Set `/host` as the root directory within the debug shell. The debug pod mounts the host’s root file system in /host within the pod. By changing the root directory to /host, you can run binaries contained in the host’s executable paths:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# chroot /host
----

. To display information about network interfaces, including their status and configuration, run the following command on the physical interface the virtual functions are created on:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ip -d link show ens5f0
----
+
.Example output

> +

Reviewer 2: if you don't create  pod, you won't see any changes. These are only apply when the pod is created.
